---
layout: post
title: "Teaching unfamiliar interactions to the visually impaired"
categories: Academic
author: "Sai Anjan "
meta: "P2"
---
This is an masters design project done in the pre-final semester of the program. We are given 4 months of time for the pre-final semester and along with few other course we hop on to this design project. In total we had got 9 weeks of time to work on this project.

## About the Project
This was an project offered by my guide [Prof. Anirudha Joshi.](http://www.idc.iitb.ac.in/~anirudha/)

## Why Teaching
Since all the interfaces are primarily made for the sighted users with visual affordances like text, icons, colours visually impaired depend on learning the interface first and start interacting with it. If parts of these interface which are learnt by these visually impaired appears again in another interface then the visually impaired recall these affordances and behave the same from their experience. These interfaces are made up of different interaction techniques like the button. Users learn interacting with the button at their first encounter and recall the interaction from the next time they encounter a button. The visual affordances like the rectangle, and the label of the button help the user take this decision. In the case of visually impaired user there are accessibility guidelines setup for mobile & web interfaces. These guidelines are focussed towards information accessibility for the visually impaired rather than the interaction techniques. These interaction techniques are growing in nature based on a different use cases in the mobile applications. For ex: A circular pie menu. Swarchakra, an keyboard built for indian languages uses this interaction technique for each character to show different matras of the character. To make the visually impaired interact with these different interaction techniques I wanted to find a teaching method for these unfamiliar interaction techniques. For the scope of this project I identified Time picker and Date picker as the interaction techniques. I observed the problems in learning this interaction technique and devised an teaching method and tested it out with users.
